src/gallium/docs/source/screen.rst, before:

Screen
======

A screen is an object representing the context-independent part of a device.

Useful Flags
------------

.. _pipe_buffer_usage:

PIPE_BUFFER_USAGE
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

These flags control buffer creation. Buffers may only have one role, so
care should be taken to not allocate a buffer with the wrong usage.

* ``PIXEL``: This is the flag to use for all textures.
* ``VERTEX``: A vertex buffer.
* ``INDEX``: An element buffer.
* ``CONSTANT``: A buffer of shader constants.

Buffers are inevitably abstracting the pipe's underlying memory management,
so many of their usage flags can be used to direct the way the buffer is
handled.

* ``CPU_READ``, ``CPU_WRITE``: Whether the user will map and, in the case of
  the latter, write to, the buffer. The convenience flag ``CPU_READ_WRITE`` is
  available to signify a read/write buffer.
* ``GPU_READ``, ``GPU_WRITE``: Whether the driver will internally need to
  read from or write to the buffer. The latter will only happen if the buffer
  is made into a render target.
* ``DISCARD``: When set on a map, the contents of the map will be discarded
  beforehand. Cannot be used with ``CPU_READ``.
* ``DONTBLOCK``: When set on a map, the map will fail if the buffer cannot be
  mapped immediately.
* ``UNSYNCHRONIZED``: When set on a map, any outstanding operations on the
  buffer will be ignored. The interaction of any writes to the map and any
  operations pending with the buffer are undefined. Cannot be used with
  ``CPU_READ``.
* ``FLUSH_EXPLICIT``: When set on a map, written ranges of the map require
  explicit flushes using :ref:`buffer_flush_mapped_range`. Requires
  ``CPU_WRITE``.

.. _pipe_texture_usage:

PIPE_TEXTURE_USAGE
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

These flags determine the possible roles a texture may be used for during its
lifetime. Texture usage flags are cumulative and may be combined to create a
texture that can be used as multiple things.

* ``RENDER_TARGET``: A colorbuffer or pixelbuffer.
* ``DISPLAY_TARGET``: A sharable buffer that can be given to another process.
* ``PRIMARY``: A frontbuffer or scanout buffer.
* ``DEPTH_STENCIL``: A depthbuffer, stencilbuffer, or Z buffer. Gallium does
  not explicitly provide for stencil-only buffers, so any stencilbuffer
  validated here is implicitly also a depthbuffer.
* ``SAMPLER``: A texture that may be sampled from in a fragment or vertex
  shader.
* ``DYNAMIC``: A texture that will be mapped frequently.

Methods
-------

XXX moar; got bored

get_name
^^^^^^^^

Returns an identifying name for the screen.

get_vendor
^^^^^^^^^^

Returns the screen vendor.

get_param
^^^^^^^^^

Get an integer/boolean screen parameter.

get_paramf
^^^^^^^^^^

Get a floating-point screen parameter.

is_format_supported
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

See if a format can be used in a specific manner.

**usage** is a bitmask of :ref:`PIPE_TEXTURE_USAGE` flags.

Returns TRUE if all usages can be satisfied.

.. note::

   ``PIPE_TEXTURE_USAGE_DYNAMIC`` is not a valid usage.

.. _texture_create:

texture_create
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Given a template of texture setup, create a buffer and texture.

texture_blanket
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Like :ref:`texture_create`, but use a supplied buffer instead of creating a
new one.

texture_destroy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Destroy a texture. The buffer backing the texture is destroyed if it has no
more references.

buffer_map
^^^^^^^^^^

Map a buffer into memory.

**usage** is a bitmask of :ref:`PIPE_TEXTURE_USAGE` flags.

Returns a pointer to the map, or NULL if the mapping failed.

buffer_map_range
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Map a range of a buffer into memory.

The returned map is always relative to the beginning of the buffer, not the
beginning of the mapped range.

.. _buffer_flush_mapped_range:

buffer_flush_mapped_range
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Flush a range of mapped memory into a buffer.

The buffer must have been mapped with ``PIPE_BUFFER_USAGE_FLUSH_EXPLICIT``.

**usage** is a bitmask of :ref:`PIPE_TEXTURE_USAGE` flags.

buffer_unmap
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Unmap a buffer from memory.

Any pointers into the map should be considered invalid and discarded.

Commit message:

docs: Implement constant buffer CAPs.

src/gallium/docs/source/screen.rst, after:

Screen
======

A screen is an object representing the context-independent part of a device.

Useful Flags
------------

.. _pipe_buffer_usage:

PIPE_BUFFER_USAGE
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

These flags control buffer creation. Buffers may only have one role, so
care should be taken to not allocate a buffer with the wrong usage.

* ``PIXEL``: This is the flag to use for all textures.
* ``VERTEX``: A vertex buffer.
* ``INDEX``: An element buffer.
* ``CONSTANT``: A buffer of shader constants.

Buffers are inevitably abstracting the pipe's underlying memory management,
so many of their usage flags can be used to direct the way the buffer is
handled.

* ``CPU_READ``, ``CPU_WRITE``: Whether the user will map and, in the case of
  the latter, write to, the buffer. The convenience flag ``CPU_READ_WRITE`` is
  available to signify a read/write buffer.
* ``GPU_READ``, ``GPU_WRITE``: Whether the driver will internally need to
  read from or write to the buffer. The latter will only happen if the buffer
  is made into a render target.
* ``DISCARD``: When set on a map, the contents of the map will be discarded
  beforehand. Cannot be used with ``CPU_READ``.
* ``DONTBLOCK``: When set on a map, the map will fail if the buffer cannot be
  mapped immediately.
* ``UNSYNCHRONIZED``: When set on a map, any outstanding operations on the
  buffer will be ignored. The interaction of any writes to the map and any
  operations pending with the buffer are undefined. Cannot be used with
  ``CPU_READ``.
* ``FLUSH_EXPLICIT``: When set on a map, written ranges of the map require
  explicit flushes using :ref:`buffer_flush_mapped_range`. Requires
  ``CPU_WRITE``.

.. _pipe_texture_usage:

PIPE_TEXTURE_USAGE
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

These flags determine the possible roles a texture may be used for during its
lifetime. Texture usage flags are cumulative and may be combined to create a
texture that can be used as multiple things.

* ``RENDER_TARGET``: A colorbuffer or pixelbuffer.
* ``DISPLAY_TARGET``: A sharable buffer that can be given to another process.
* ``PRIMARY``: A frontbuffer or scanout buffer.
* ``DEPTH_STENCIL``: A depthbuffer, stencilbuffer, or Z buffer. Gallium does
  not explicitly provide for stencil-only buffers, so any stencilbuffer
  validated here is implicitly also a depthbuffer.
* ``SAMPLER``: A texture that may be sampled from in a fragment or vertex
  shader.
* ``DYNAMIC``: A texture that will be mapped frequently.

Methods
-------

XXX moar; got bored

get_name
^^^^^^^^

Returns an identifying name for the screen.

get_vendor
^^^^^^^^^^

Returns the screen vendor.

get_param
^^^^^^^^^

Get an integer/boolean screen parameter. Valid parameter names include.

* ``PIPE_CAP_MAX_CONST_BUFFERS``: Maximum number of constant buffers that
  can be bound to any shader stage using ``set_constant_buffer``.
  
  If 0 is returned, the driver is not aware of multiple constant buffers,
  supports binding of only one constant buffer, and does not support
  two-dimensional CONST register file access in TGSI shaders.
  
  If a value greater than 0 is returned, the driver can have multiple
  constant buffers bound to shader stages. The CONST register file can
  be accessed with two-dimensional indices, like in the example below.
  
    DCL CONST[0][0..7]       # declare first 8 vectors of constbuf 0
    DCL CONST[3][0]          # declare first vector of constbuf 3
    MOV OUT[0], CONST[0][3]  # copy vector 3 of constbuf 0
  
  For backwards compatibility, one-dimensional access to CONST register
  file is still supported. In that case, the constbuf index is assumed
  to be 0.

* ``PIPE_CAP_MAX_CONST_BUFFER_SIZE``: Maximum byte size of a single constant
  buffer.

get_paramf
^^^^^^^^^^

Get a floating-point screen parameter.

is_format_supported
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

See if a format can be used in a specific manner.

**usage** is a bitmask of :ref:`PIPE_TEXTURE_USAGE` flags.

Returns TRUE if all usages can be satisfied.

.. note::

   ``PIPE_TEXTURE_USAGE_DYNAMIC`` is not a valid usage.

.. _texture_create:

texture_create
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Given a template of texture setup, create a buffer and texture.

texture_blanket
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Like :ref:`texture_create`, but use a supplied buffer instead of creating a
new one.

texture_destroy
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Destroy a texture. The buffer backing the texture is destroyed if it has no
more references.

buffer_map
^^^^^^^^^^

Map a buffer into memory.

**usage** is a bitmask of :ref:`PIPE_TEXTURE_USAGE` flags.

Returns a pointer to the map, or NULL if the mapping failed.

buffer_map_range
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Map a range of a buffer into memory.

The returned map is always relative to the beginning of the buffer, not the
beginning of the mapped range.

.. _buffer_flush_mapped_range:

buffer_flush_mapped_range
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

Flush a range of mapped memory into a buffer.

The buffer must have been mapped with ``PIPE_BUFFER_USAGE_FLUSH_EXPLICIT``.

**usage** is a bitmask of :ref:`PIPE_TEXTURE_USAGE` flags.

buffer_unmap
^^^^^^^^^^^^

Unmap a buffer from memory.

Any pointers into the map should be considered invalid and discarded.
